1541820: Implement a Gradle plugin for Glean (#421)
mozilla/glean: docs/user/adding-glean-to-your-project.md

implementation "org.mozilla.components:service-glean:{latest-version}"
```

> **Important:** the `{latest-version}` placeholder in the above link should be replaced with the version number of the Glean SDK used by the project.

For example, if version *6.0.2* is used, then the include directive becomes:

```Groovy
implementation "org.mozilla.components:service-glean:6.0.2"
```

The Glean SDK is released as part of [android-components](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components).  Therefore, it follows android-components' versions.
The [android-components release page](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/android-components/releases/) can be used to determine the latest version.

#### Integrating with the build system

In order for the Glean SDK to generate an API for your metrics, two Gradle plugins must be included in your build:

- The [Glean Gradle plugin](https://github.com/mozilla/glean/tree/master/gradle-plugin/)
- JetBrains' [Python envs plugin](https://github.com/JetBrains/gradle-python-envs/)

> The Glean Gradle plugin is distributed on Maven, so we need to tell your build where to look for it by adding the following to the top of your `build.gradle`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Glean Gradle plugin is distributed through Mozilla's Maven, so we need to tell your build where to look for it by adding the following to the top of your `build.gradle`:
```

```
buildscript {
    repositories {
        maven {
            url "https://maven.mozilla.org/maven2"
        }

        dependencies {
            classpath "org.mozilla.telemetry:glean-gradle-plugin:{latest-version}"
        }
    }
}
```

> **Important:** as above, the `{latest-version}` placeholder in the above link should be replaced with the version number of the Glean SDK used by the project.

The JetBrains Python plugin is distributed in the Gradle plugin repository, so it can be included with:

```Groovy
plugins {
    id "com.jetbrains.python.envs" version "0.0.26"
}
```

Right before the end of the same file, we need to apply the Glean Gradle plugin:

```Groovy
apply plugin: "org.mozilla.telemetry.glean-gradle-plugin"
```

> There are [additional parameters](android-build-configuration-options.md) that can be set to control the behavior of the Glean Gradle plugin, but they are rarely used in normal use.

Reviewer: uber nit:  "rarely used in normal use" sounds weird/awkward to me, can this be reworded to say something more along the lines of "rarely needed for normal use"?

> > **Note:** Earlier versions of Glean used a Gradle script (`sdk_generator.gradle`) rather than a Gradle plugin. Its use is deprecated and should projects should be updated to use the Gradle plugin as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Earlier versions of Glean used a Gradle script (`sdk_generator.gradle`) rather than a Gradle plugin. Its use is deprecated and projects should be updated to use the Gradle plugin as described above.
```

#### Integrating with the build system

In order for the Glean SDK to generate an API for your metrics, two Gradle plugins must be included in your build:

- The [Glean Gradle plugin](https://github.com/mozilla/glean/tree/master/gradle-plugin/)
- JetBrains' [Python envs plugin](https://github.com/JetBrains/gradle-python-envs/)

The Glean Gradle plugin is distributed on Maven, so we need to tell your build where to look for it by adding the following to the top of your `build.gradle`:

```
buildscript {
    repositories {

>         mavenLocal()

Reviewer 2: Do we really need `mavenLocal`? This is for pointing to the local maven repository, usually for testing

Author: Oops.  This is what I used in my local testing of Fenix -- I forgot to switch it back.

        dependencies {

>             classpath "org.mozilla.telemetry:glean-gradle-plugin:{latest-version}"

Reviewer 2: Is `latest-version` a placeholder here? If so, I'd retain the note we had here for stating that :)

Author: Indeed.  I didn't intend to remove this.

        }
    }
}
```

The JetBrains Python plugin is distributed in the Gradle plugin repository, so it can be included with:

```Groovy
plugins {
    id "com.jetbrains.python.envs" version "0.0.26"
}
```

Right before the end of the same file, we need to apply the Glean Gradle plugin:

```Groovy
apply plugin: "org.mozilla.telemetry.glean-gradle-plugin"
```

> There are [additional parameters](android-build-configuration-options.md) that can be set to control the behavior of the Glean Gradle plugin, but they are rarely used in normal use.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a note, somewhere in this file, about the legacy use of the `sdk_generator.gradle`?

Author: Good idea.
